Distribution IOTC Contracting Parties: Australia, Bangladesh, China, Comoros, European Union, France (Territories), India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Rep of), Japan, Kenya, Rep. of Korea, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Seychelles, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, United Rep. of Tanzania, Thailand, United Kingdom, Yemen. Cooperating Non-Contracting Parties: Liberia, Panama. Intergovernmental Organisations, Non- Governmental Organisations. Chairperson IOTC. Copy to: FAO Headquarters, FAO Representatives to CPCs. This message has been transmitted by email only Abis Centre, Providence | PO Box 1011 Victoria, Seychelles| Tel: +248.4225.494| iotc-secretariat@fao.org | www.iotc.org Page 1 of 4 01 December 2025 IOTC CIRCULAR 2025-39 Dear Sir/Madam INTERSESSIONAL DECISION ON THE DELAYED IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DFAD REGISTER An intersessional decision has been taken regarding the delayed implementation of the DFAD Register, following the process initiated by the Commission Chair's letter (IOTC-2025-3017). The Maldives and Thailand provided feedback on the request from the European Union, and the decision, based on consultation among the concerned parties, is as follows. 1. A Pilot testing phase for the DFAD register will commence from 1 December 2025 to all interested parties and will remain open until the formal launch of the register. 2. A mandatory testing phase for the DFAD register will commence on 1 February 2026 and continue till 31 May 2026. All fishing fleets that deploy DFADs will be required to use the system during this testing phase. CPCs are encouraged and expected to provide feedback to the developers through the Secretariat during this phase. The Secretariat will give more information about the feedback procedures in due course. 3. The Commission in 2026 will further consider any technical issues related to the implementation of the DFAD Register, based on a Report from the Secretariat on the testing phase of the DFAD Register and a paper from the European Union based on implementation experience. Any other interested CPCs may also table documents for consideration by the Commission on the same subject matter. 4. The DFAD Register will enter into full effect on 1 June 2026 and will become mandatory for all CPCs that fall within the ambit of Resolution 24/02. Yours sincerely Mr Adam Ziyad Chairperson Attachments: • Annex1: Letter from the EU • Annex2: Letter from the Maldives Page 2 of 4 Annex1 Page 3 of 4 Page 4 of 4 Annex2